---
title:  "VarAnn Minutes 2018-02-07"
date: 2018-02-07
layout: default
category:
  - variant_annotation_minutes
---

### Variant Representation 
##### Chairs: Matt Brush, Javier Lopez
##### Attendees “Name (Affiliation)”: Elliott Margulies (Illumina), Malachi Griffith (VICC), Chris Bizon (ClinGen), Sarah Hunt, Raymond Dalgleish, Zhenyu Zhang, David Kreda, Steven Brenner, Larry Babb (ClinGen), Bob Freimuth (ClinGen)


##### Minutes:

Matt: went over roadmap breifly: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Hu1t_JPtm1T12M5iJVPsZxDvE-OJp-munyWh-S7vu68/edit

Matt: Landscape analysis will see what is currently available and determine if there is something that can be extended to hit our purpose.

??: VEP is a standard in the community, doesn’t cover everything, but it is a standard.

Malachai: ACMG is widely used for pathogenicity of germline variants, but doesn’t cover what VEP covers.  There isn’t a single standard right now that covers all of annotation.
??: A lot of the standards were developed as needs arose and may be piecemeal.  Even established standards should be examined to ensure they meet the needs of this project.

Matt: Goal is to create a universal, high level, integrated model.

["Member Info" document](https://drive.google.com/open?id=15c9Mf0isMfMdNBJLSChTIy0FtzieHJx6tfj5bbNndq0) 

Either of the members of the GKS subgroups should add their info to this spreadsheet to track members of the projects, their contact info, affiliations, and area of expertise.

??: We need to make sure that we have methods of communication in use outside of Github because of time commitment and technical expertise differences.

Matt: We can use google docs, email lists, and Github

 ["Project Charter" document] (https://drive.google.com/open?id=1OcKhhpwW-xVPBnRb_-NIhUgIJJdq1z07_bSnSKUC1ew)
 
Create GKS github repo with wiki.  Need to discuss the best way to use Github going forward for our needs.

??: Will there be a live document to understand the overall current status and agreement of the group?

Matt: This is something that we need to work on.

Melissa: The minutes can be searched and we were talking about making a condensed decision document.

["Landscape Analysis" document](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1BV0BuvdkobVAi3YLCzqUUqBGT-wM2jPfLvVQAF5IQcc)

Members should contribute to the landscape analysis and then the options will be analyzed we will evaluate what can be used from the most promising options.

["Glossary" document](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1zrOXzD08XletSHwrJHofkPufANkAy7marAkPyFX9AVY)

In process, will be worked on.

Driver Project Engagement: 

Melissa: Other work streams are creating surveys, will send examples.

Elliott: What is in and out of scope?  We are looking to set standards for clinical use of annotation and variant calling, so a bar can be set on how accurate variants are.  Are performance metrics in scope?

Matt: sounds like it would be in scope.  We are trying to model the evidence and provenance of annotations.

Malachai: representation and quality evaluation of annotations seem inseparable.

Matt: In the Sepio model we’re developing algorithms that can look at the data and can computationally assess the strength of an assertion.

Elliott: Will add this idea to the landscape analysis and draft a doc for the concept and share with the group.
