---
title:  "VarRep Minutes 2018-03-05"
date: 2018-03-05
layout: default
category:
  - variant_representation_minutes
---

### Variant Representation
#### Working Call (equivalent topics)
##### Chairs: Larry Babb, Michael Baudis
##### Attendees “Name (Affiliation)”: Shawn Rynearson and Karen EIlbeck (U of U), Heidi Sofia (NIH-NHGRI), Eric Moyer (NCBI/dbSNP), Cristina Yenyxe Gonzalez (EMBL-EBI, ENA/EVA/EGA), Tristan Nelson (Geisinger), Melissa Cline (UC Santa Cruz), Bob Freimuth (Mayo Clinic)

##### Minutes:

[Variation Rep Decision Log](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1hTzL-IuOoKCPXVCeCgfOLApTW9qP9yMjFLz5t_6Vjvw/edit?usp=sharing)

[Project Charter](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1OcKhhpwW-xVPBnRb_-NIhUgIJJdq1z07_bSnSKUC1ew/view)

Karen’s presentation slides here: https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1rglfPUMNYvqqR8-baru06vESloIGqgp8LjLrEgdTx-k/edit?usp=sharing

Sub-group meeting notes and discussion are captured [here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1exzE9hLaMeYsQ6Uu5OQOJbO_hJjyBWu--vqdboWHLYI/edit#) (please open and join in)

Related note regarding Var Reps involvement in an upcoming Reference Retrieval  meeting this Thursday… (from the chat)

12:09:09	 From Melissa Konopko : The Reference Retrieval meeting invitation is related to the VMC checksum procedure aligning to the one to be used there.

12:12:06	 From Bob F : Melissa - correct. There was preliminary discussion about whether the hash/checksum component should be pulled out of the VMC spec and treated separately, so it can be implemented uniformly across GA4GH specs.

12:12:16	 From Bob F : Nothing decided yet, however.

12:13:10	 From Andy Yates : Yes! We are not talking about clinvar submission. I don't want to present to the wider GA4GH that two specs I'm involved with have different checksum algorithms for reference sequence :)
